---
title: "Homework 3"
author: ~
date: '2020-09-06'
slug: "hw02"
categories: [homework]
tags: [week03]
draft: false
toc: true
---

This homework, as well as homework 3, is due Wednesday Sept 16. Lecture notes coming ASAP.

<!--more-->


# Vectors, types, and coercion

1. Use `class()` to determine the type of the following vectors:

`c(TRUE, FALSE, FALSE)`

`c(1, 2, 3)`

`c(1.3, 2.4, 3.5)`

`c("a", "b", "c")`

2. What type are the following vectors, and why?

`c(1, 2, "a")`

`c(TRUE, FALSE, 2)`

# Directory setup

Create a `hw_3` directory in your `reproducible_data_analysis` directory. 

Also create a directory in `reproducible_data_analysis` called `data`, and another one called `plots`. Download the file [all_med_enz_activities.csv](https://www.dropbox.com/s/67zhiqa0ep0d7kr/med_enz.csv?dl=0) and place it in your `data` directory.

Use the function `getwd()` to see your "working directory". If you specify a relative path to any file in R, R will assume the path is relative to your working directory. For instance, if your working directory is `~/Documents/classes/GEOL490/reproducible_data_analysis/`, and you read a csv file using `read_csv("data/my_file.csv")`, it will read the file at `~/Documents/classes/GEOL490/reproducible_data_analysis/data/my_file.csv`. 

# Basic R operations

Create a script called `hw_03` in `reproducible_data_analysis/hw_03` to do the following tasks. 

**TIP**: Be sure to use the `?` command in the console to view the help file on each function prior to using it. 

* Load the **tidyverse** set of packages using the `library()` function.
  * Reminder: you have to install a package just once in your life (or, at least, once per major version of R) by running `install.pacakges(tidyverse)`. But need to load the package using `library()` each time you restart RStudio.
* Read in the `all_med_activities.csv` file using the `read_csv` function and assign it to an object called `med_enz` using the `<-` operator. This file contains data on enzyme activities in sediments of the Mediterranean Sea. The data are published [here](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0967063720300194), if you're curious.
  * Remember that your working directory
* Determine what class `med_enz` belongs to using the `class()` function. 
* Determine the structure of `med_enz` using the `str()` function.
* Determine the number of rows of `med_enz` using the `nrow()` function.
* Get a "glimpse" of `med_enz` using the `glimpse()` function
* Print and save a histogram of the *activity.nmM.hr* column using the following code, about which we will talk later.
```
p <- ggplot(data = med_enz, aes(x = activity.nM.hr)) + 
geom_histogram()
print(p)
ggsave(filename = "plots/hmk_2_plot.png", plot = p, height = 3, width = 4, units = "in", dpi = 300)
```
